Clarifies Behavior of SANITIZE_FIELD_NAMES (#378)
elastic/apm: specs/agents/sanitization.md

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to
be interpreted as described in
[RFC 2119](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt).

## Data sanitization

### `sanitize_field_names` configuration

Sometimes it is necessary to sanitize, i.e., remove,
sensitive data sent to Elastic APM.

This config accepts a list of wildcard patterns of field names which control
how an agent will sanitize data.

|                |   |
|----------------|---|
| Type           | `List<`[`WildcardMatcher`](../../tests/agents/json-specs/wildcard_matcher_tests.json)`>` |
| Default        | `password, passwd, pwd, secret, *key, *token*, *session*, *credit*, *card*, authorization, set-cookie` |
| Dynamic        | `true` |
| Central config | `true` |

> ## Configuration

Author: Ah, thank you.  You've discovered my bad habit of making everything an h2.  changing to an h4

Agents MUST provide a minimum default configuration of

    [ 'password', 'passwd', 'pwd', 'secret', '*key', '*token*', '*session*',
      '*credit*','*card*', 'authorization', 'set-cookie']

for the `sanitize_field_names` configuration value.  Agent's MAY include the
following extra fields in their default configuration to avoid breaking changes

>     ['pw','pass','connect.sid']

Reviewer: The fact that some agents have different defaults should be reflected in [the remote config description](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/7.x/x-pack/plugins/apm/common/agent_configuration/setting_definitions/general_settings.ts#L227).

Author: Today I learned there's a remote config description :) These extra fields were/are for the Node.js agent specifically -- they're fields that we previously redacted that would be tricky/cumbersome (but not impossible) to change.  However, since it sounds like there's downstream dependencies I'm learning towards just removing this and going with the defaults. 

@eyalkoren (or anyone) A few follow up questions for you -- is the the remote config description _used_ by the central configuration system?  

That is -- with those defaults set in `general_settings.ts` does that mean the central configuration system will send these values by default?  The follow on question that is -- do agents typically need to set these default values themselves, or can/should we rely on them being set by central configuration?

Reviewer: >  is the the remote config description used by the central configuration system?

No, it is only a string for description of the default.

> does that mean the central configuration system will send these values by default? The follow on question that is -- do agents typically need to set these default values themselves, or can/should we rely on them being set by central configuration?

The central config does not send these values, agents need to set them themselves. After all, the central config is just one more configuration system for agents, which need to have proper defaults even if it is disabled, and you would typically use the same default regardless of the configuration source.

Reviewer 2: @astorm So you leaning towards having the apm-agent-nodejs *drop* `['pw','pass','connect.sid']` by default?  I don't disagree. We'll need to defer doing so until a major ver bump, right?

Author: Thank you @eyalkoren -- the description of this issue has been updated with a TO DO that reflects the need to update the remote config description.

Author: @trentm I suspect we'll talk off of GitHub about this, but my intent was to spec `['pw','pass','connect.sid']` this way in order to give us some flexibility in keeping these extra keys redacted and not force a major version bump on us immediately.

If an end-user configures different values, these values MUST **replace** the
above values. An end-user's configured values MUST NOT be merged with these

> default values.

Reviewer: If you feel it is not clear that we use this config to override the default, [the remote config description](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/7.x/x-pack/plugins/apm/common/agent_configuration/setting_definitions/general_settings.ts#L235) should be clarified as well.

Author: > If you feel it is not clear that we use this config to override the default

After discussion here and elsewhere the consensus seems to be that it's obvious that configuration values replace other values and don't merge.  I'll be removing this passage from the doc.  Thank you for pointing out the remove config description though.

## Sanitizing Values

If a payload field's name (a header key, a form key) matches a configured

> wildcard, that field's _value_ MUST be removed/redacted and the key itself

Reviewer: ```suggestion
wildcard, that field's _value_ MUST be redacted and the key itself
```
I believe if we send the key, sending a redacted string is better as it provides the user with an indication that this is intentional, not just missing.

Author: Agreed -- the removal of keys was a misreading of the spec on my part.  Accepting this change as it.

> MUST still be reported in the agent payload. Agents MAY chose the string

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MUST still be reported in the agent payload. Agents MAY choose the string
```

Author: 👍

they use to replace the value so long as it's consistent and does not reveal

> the value it has replaced. Some example replacement strings
> include `REDACTED`, `**********`, `-----------`, etc.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the value it has replaced. The replacement string SHOULD be `[REDACTED]`.
```
Let's recommend a specific one but still allow for others.

Author: Good idea -- change made.

Fields that MUST be sanitized are the HTTP Request headers, HTTP Response
headers, and form fields in an `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` request

> body.  No fields (including `set-cookie` headers) are exempt from this.

Reviewer 3: There's also [`transaction.context.request.cookies`](https://github.com/elastic/apm-server/blob/6062235783c398c61722ffb23c98ab790bcdf6e7/docs/spec/v2/transaction.json#L129-L135) which is a map of cookie names to values. This map must be redacted, too.

Reviewer 4: Only transaction.context.request.cookies map should be filtered or those `Set-Cookie` HTTP header(s) that reference excluded cookie names as well (assuming that the configured value is different from the default and `Set-Cookie` is not included)?

Reviewer 3: `Set-Cookie` is a response header. The corresponding request header is `Cookie`. As the content of the `Cookie` header is the same as `transaction.context.request.cookies`, in the Java agent, we're removing `Cookie` from `transaction.context.request.headers`. This both minimizes the amount of duplicate data and eliminates the complication of having to redact parts of a header value. 

For response headers, there's no equivalent to `transaction.context.request.cookies`, so we just sanitize the `transaction.context.response.headers` map.

See also https://github.com/elastic/apm-agent-java/blob/master/apm-agent-core/src/main/java/co/elastic/apm/agent/impl/context/SanitizingWebProcessor.java

Reviewer 4: > in the Java agent, we're removing `Cookie` from `transaction.context.request.headers`. 

Should we include it in the spec?

Author: @felixelastic @SergeyKleyman @basepi If I'm reading the above correctly, it sounds like there's three data structures/values to consider here

1. The `Set-Cookie` response header
2. The `Cookie` request header
3. A representation of the key/values pairs of a `Set-Cookie` header that's stored in `transaction.context.request.cookies`

If I spec-ed this as something like

> MUST redact `transaction.context.request.cookies`

> If agents capture values for `Set-Cookie` or `Cookie` request/response headers, it MUST redact the field values here as well.

would that capture what we're after? Or is there more nuance here?

Reviewer 3: The relevant data structures are:
* `transaction.context.request.cookies`
* `transaction.context.request.headers`
* `transaction.context.request.body` (if form/url encoded)
* `transaction.context.response.headers`

Also the `Cookie` header should be removed form `transaction.context.request.headers` as it's already recorded in `transaction.context.request.cookies` and because it would sanitization quite difficult/expensive.

Reviewer 4: > Also the `Cookie` header should be removed form `transaction.context.request.headers`

Instead of hardcoding `Cookie` header removal can this behavior be achieved by adding `cookie` to `SANITIZE_FIELD_NAMES` default value?

Author: @SergeyKleyman Re:

> can this behavior be achieved by adding cookie to SANITIZE_FIELD_NAMES default value?

Good question! Thinking that through --  I'm not sure this would achieve what we want. Here's my reasoning: If we added `cookie` to `SANITIZE_FIELD_NAMES`, we'd be instructing the agent to _REDACT_ the a header named cookie, and not to remove it completely.  

Also, I've been operating under the assumption that the default fields were decided on a while ago and would be a pain to change now after some agent teams have already landed this functionality or are midstream on it.

Author: @felixbarny Thank you for sharing those data structures -- I learned something. It looks like the Node.js Agent doesn't capture `transaction.context.request.cookies` at all.  Wondering if we need a spec for what part of the request gets captured or if that's just going spec wild. 

More pertinent to our discussion though -- What do you think about this as final language for future proofing things?

> Fields that MUST be sanitized are the HTTP Request headers, HTTP Response
headers, and form fields in an `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` request
body.  Additionally, if cookie headers are parsed into name/value pairs and reported 
to APM Server via the agent (for example, `transaction.context.request.cookies`), the 
cookie names must be sanitized as well.

Reviewer 3: Ah, I didn't know some agents don't send `request.cookies`. 
That property is spec'd in the [intake API](https://github.com/elastic/apm-server/blob/d18c559e4136b2213a4f6e206258c5d303ec1b0f/docs/spec/v2/transaction.json#L129-L135) but it's not a required field.

I like that wording!

Reviewer 4: > Here's my reasoning: If we added `cookie` to `SANITIZE_FIELD_NAMES`, we'd be instructing the agent to _REDACT_ the a header named cookie, and not to remove it completely.

The main reason for my suggestion is that it might look strange to the users that `Set-Cookie` header is redacted while `Cookie` header is removed completely.

Reviewer 4: > Additionally, if cookie headers are parsed into name/value pairs and reported 
to APM Server via the agent (for example, `transaction.context.request.cookies`), the 
cookie names must be sanitized as well.

It might be worth adding something like:

> In addition parsed cookie headers MUST NOT be included in the set of headers (in the example above in `transaction.context.request.headers`)

The query string and other captured request bodies (such as `application/json`)

> MUST NOT be sanitized.

Reviewer: There may be agents that do that (not Java). 
Why not allowing this (assuming overhead is not a concern)? If there was already a discussion where it was agreed to ban this, good enough for me.

Author: There was some earlier discussion [about query strings](https://github.com/elastic/apm/pull/334#issuecomment-688212621), and since the initial spec singled out `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` it also seemed to imply that other requests body were not to be sanitized.  If it turns out other agents _do_ currently sanitize these values we can shift this from a MUST NOT to a MAY.

Reviewer: We can decide based on what agents do, but what I am suggesting is to allow this regardless.

Reviewer 3: Overhead is the main concern here. Redacting a specific key in the JSON request body should be done on the APM Server or in and Elasticsearch ingest node.

Reviewer: I assumed this is the main concern, however it can still be allowed for cases where it is not a concern or it is a requirement (e.g. a customer for whom redacting in APM Server/ES is too late).
But if no agent needs to spend effort on removing something because of this limitation, not harm starting this way.

Author: Thanks for @eyalkoren and @felixbarny for the feedback here.  Based on what you've both said I've changed this to read 

> The query string and other captured request bodies (such as `application/json`)
SHOULD NOT be sanitized.

Stated like this it discourages sanitizing these values (out of an concern for overhead/perf.), but allows agent team who have weighed the trade-offs and decided that it's worth doing  to keep their implementations. 

If there's more to discuss here feel free to unresolve the conversation.

Agents MAY choose to further sanitize fields based on the _value_ of a
particular field, including the keys and values stored in a cookie header.
Agents SHOULD consider sanitization based on values to be a seperate

> feature with its own configuration.

Reviewer 5: After re-reading the discussion in #334 I think we should remove this (or make it "SHOULD NOT"). I think it's pretty clear from #334 that we're moving away from value sanitization.

Author: 👍 sounds good to me -- I've updated this text to reflect that.  

> Agents SHOULD NOT sanitize fields based on the _value_ of a particular field.
